This is version 0.1 of my port of the the GNU fileutils. This package
consists of clones of some of the file utilities rewritten to be as compact
as possible for use in the elks project. Included in this version are pretty
complete versions of mkdir, mkfifo mknod, rmdir, sync and touch and partly
complete but usable versions of rm and mv.

While the code is based around the GNU fileutils 3.14, with inspiration from
tiny-utils, I have re-written alot of code, and this should not be
considered to be a version of fileutils.

To compile all the utilities type make, and they will be built and copied
into the bin directory. From here, install where you want to use them.

Almost all of the utilities have had features removed to make them smaller.
All of them no longer recognise the --help and --version switches and many
have had other switches removed. Switches must be specified in the form -s,
not --switch as they can be in the GNU utils. The options available for each
util are as follows. Please view the relevant man pages for info on what
these options do. (Eventually I will write man pages for these, if noone
else does it first.) If I have removed an option which you think is vital,
please E-mail ajr@ecs.soton.ac.uk me letting me know why and I may add it, 
or better still send me a patch.

mkdir [-p] dir...

mkfifo file-name...

mknod filename {bcu} major minor
mknod filename p

rmdir [-p] dir...

sync

The following two are incomplete and should be used with great care. They
have no switches and virtually no error checking, but are usable if you need
them.

mv source dest

rm file-name..

Please note above, mv will only move one file, and then destination must
also be a filename, and it does not check to see if destination already
exists. rm can only remove files, and does not check anything about them.

I will be releasing better versions of these very soon. The reason these
simples versions are being releases is that I decided to release what I had
done as soon as minish started working on elks.

If you think that there is anything wrong or missing about any of this
package please let me know and I will fix it, but remember that the purpose
fo the package is a set of very small utilities to be used on low poweres
machines running elks, and features that carry alot of bulk will need a very
good reason to be included.

Alistair Riddoch
ajr@ecs.soton.ac.uk
