This is elkscmd, a loose colletion of user space code for ELKS including
most of what you need apart from the kernel to build a working system.

Note that inclusion of code in this package does not imply any kind of
right to distribute the code. Please check the license for each program
before modifying or distributing it.

More contributions are required under a GPL compatable license. Please see
the CONTRIBUTING file for more details.

This package has been put together for two main purposes:-

1. To make it as easy as possible to put together a working binary release
   of a complete ELKS system.

2. To make it as easy as possible for other developers to accuratly
   reproduce a release.

The Makefiles contain rules which automatically build disk images for
the ELKS system. In order to do this you must have the source code to the ELKS
kernel, and to the Dev86 package and elksnet package unpacked and online, and 
the definitions at the top of the Make.defs point to the correct source 
directories.

CAUTION: Building images must be done as root as it needs to mount and unmount
loopback filesystems. It is essential that TARGET_MNT is set in Make.defs, or
running these rules could render your system inoperable.

The main rule used in building a release is called images.zip, can is envoked
as follows:-

make images.zip

This creates four of the five possible images, and puts them into a zip file
ready for release.

The images that can be created are as follows:-

boot	- A kernel boot disk - simply a copy of the kernel from the kernel
	  source tree.

root	- A 360K minimal root image. Includes enough programs and support files
	  for a basic test system.
	  
root_net - A 720K root image. Includes networking utilities (a tiny webserver,
		telnet, etc)

comb	- A 720K combined boot/root image. Includes a kernel, everything on
	  root, and installs the minixfs bootloader from the Dev86 package.

sibo	- A 128K very minimal root image suitable for a 128K Solid State Disk
	  as used in SIBO architecture machines such as the Psion series 3
	  organiser.
