
Notes for this Nano-X package

This package is based on Microwindows 0.86. The code was changed to get it to
run with the current version of ELKS and a new mouse driver added to work with
Qemu. The makefile has been modified, the examples made working and unneeded
files were removed. Some files were moved from the root directory to subdirectories.

The package is set to use the mouse driver for Qemu. If you have a real PC, you will
need a serial mouse connected to the RS232C port, PS/2 will not work. In that case
you have to modify the Makefile and select the "mou_ser" mouse driver like this:
SERVFILES += drivers/mou_ser.o
#SERVFILES += drivers/mou_ser_qemu.o

To compile make the "src" directory the current directory and enter "make" on the
command line. This will generate the following demo programs in the bin directory:

demo     - show several overlapping windows, allow to draw lines in the black window
demo2    - very simple demo, just draws
landmine - a game
clock    - displays a round clock
nterm    - graphical terminal, similar to Xterm
world    - shows a world map

There is a descriptive text for the landmine game and the world map in the
demos/nanox directory.
For nterm to run, you need to enable pseudo ttys with "make menuconfig" in the
elks directory.

You can press the ESC key to exit these programs.

To install these programs, two scripts are provided. The script
"add_to_full3.sh" will add a single demo file to the full3 floppy image in
the elkscmd directory. E.g. "add_to_full3.sh nterm" will add the nterm
program. Space on the floppy does not allow to add all demos.

The script "build_hd_nano_image.sh" will generate a bootable hard disk image
with the name nano_hdd in the elkscmd directory and copy all demo files to it.

To run the modified full3 image, run the "qemu.sh" script in the "src" directory,
to run the hard disk image, run the "qemu_hdd.sh" script in the "src" directory.

Microwindows will also allow to compile the package to a separate graphics server
that the applications will use via Unix domain sockets. Therefore enable Unix
domain sockets for that in menuconfig. To save space disable the ne2k driver.
Then change the parameter in line 30 of the Makefile to "xLINK_APP_INTO_SERVER=1".
This undefines this parameter and will get Microwindows to compile a separate server.

If you start "nano-X &" on the command line to run the server in the background it
will switch the screen into graphics mode and clear it to black. Then you cannot
enter the name of the demo to run in text mode. So you have to start both on the
command line e.g.: "nano-X &; demo2". There is also a demo.sh script which will
start the nano-X server plus the demo application. Please try the landmine game
right after booting ELKS. If you get the message "no space left on device" please
reload qemu and try again.

You do not have to enable the nano sockets with ELKS for that, it will use the
Unix domain sockets which ELKS now supports.

The original package and further information about Microwindows can be downloaded
from this site: www.microwindows.org.

25th of March 2017 Georg Potthast


